---
title:  "Surviving The Coding Bootcamp"
date:   2018-06-16
categories: [Web development]
tags: [blog]
---
I know that the post-bootcamp life can be hectic and very stressful, especially with the money that you probably put in and this being a whole new career path looming over you. Here are the things I did and the mindset I had while initially job searching two years ago when I first got out of my coding bootcamp.

You don’t know enough. That’s okay. No one else does either. I’m in my second job out of bootcamp and what I’ve learned from working with two teams is that everyone Googles looking for answers, everyone goes through Stack Overflow, when things break, half the time, more than one developer is looking at the problem. This is now your lifelong headache, but it’s everyone else’s too. Make one big unpolished web app and multiple small and polished projects. One is to show your versatility as a coder. The other is to catch the eyes of employers. Having clean code in a project with a less than pretty ui and projects that are clean and yet simple with a basic and visually pleasing design will help you along with getting that first web development job. Keep a few repositories active on Github(even it’s just changing the background color to your site every week). If your Github is dead and you have no recent projects you can point to, you’re pretty much telling companies to simply take you at your word when it comes to your skills. Do a coding exercise every single day (adding a list of sites to practice) There are a LOT of sites and you NEED to keep your skills up (even after you get a job in order to plan for you next one). Here are a few sites to try out: Top Coder, Hacker Rank, Check.IO, Codewars, Code Eval, CodinGame Go to local meetups as often as you can. Meet other developers and see what is going on locally and what other developers using your languages, frameworks and environments are wanting to figure out or move into. Practice the terminology for your development environment. Don’t be like me and call characters the squiggly thing and that line thingy. Interact with online communities in your city and state and in general a few times a week: Slack, Quora, Twitter, Reddit, Stack Overflow and LinkedIn. Don’t freak out! You’re okay. And honestly, while I can’t 100% guarantee you getting a job, I think if you do these things, you’ll be fine. :)
